[ Music ]
>> Regina Meredith: Dr. William
Tiller is a former professor
of material science
and engineering
at Stanford University.
That was his day job.
His real work, however,
was in coming
to understand how one
can change the nature
of materials with the mind.
This is some of the most
profound work on the planet.
As the person who created
what has become known
as various intention
experiments,
Dr. Tiller has aligned
himself with Suzy Miller
for a radical new
approach to understanding
and reversing the effects of
autism in what is now called the
"Autism Intention Experiments."
Thank you so much
for being here.
I have seen you, at a distance
here and there at conventions,
and even private gathering,
but it really wasn't --
I don't think it was
meant to be for us
to come together
until right now.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
When fullness is.
>> Regina Meredith:
That's right.
[Chuckles] When fullness is.
Now just about everybody
in the world
of what has been I think
erroneously called pseudoscience
that are doing these
bold new experiments.
Everybody turns to you.
They quote you.
They post your papers
and so forth
to validate what they
have come to understand,
and that is really high
praise in a field that has
so many brilliant people
coming to the surface
but the reality is you beat
them there [chuckles] you beat
them there.
You've been doing
this for 40 years now.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
Yeah, a little over.
>> Regina Meredith: A
little over 40 years.
If you would please tell
the people who don't know
who you are just yet --
who are just meeting you
for the first time, give us
an idea of your background.
You're highly credible in
the world of science already,
and big deal to cross
over into this other area.
>> Dr. William Tiller: Okay.
Well the -- I was in industry
for nine years before
I went to Stanford.
That was at Westinghouse
Research Laboratories and I grew
up in Toronto, Canada,
was educated in Toronto.
>> Regina Meredith: What were
you working on at Westinghouse?
>> Dr. William Tiller: I
was working on the science
of crystallization, and that
could be a 100 ton ingots
of metal or it could be
single crystal silicones
to go into devices.
>> Regina Meredith: The
computer industry and.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
Et cetera,
yes, exactly, so anything.
Could be the purification
of water, seawater,
by the freezing process
possibilities,
any thermal electricity,
of all kinds.
>> Regina Meredith:
Crystallization of materials.
>> Dr. William Tiller: Yes.
It's really a phase
transformation,
a particular one.
I've always loved crystals,
and I found out how they grow.
>> Regina Meredith: You
found out how they grow.
>> Dr. William Tiller: Yes.
>> Regina Meredith: Okay.
>> Dr. William Tiller: So that
was work was all about that,
mathematical, as well
as experimental, so.
>> Regina Meredith:
This was at the dawning
of what would become the
commercial computer age.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
It was indeed part
of that beginning, yeah.
It was -- the beginning
of it was where the growth
of crystals was an art, and
the foundry things were an art,
castings was an art.
My work and those working with
me began to make it a science.
>> Regina Meredith:
Well it's interesting
because without going into a
whole discourse on crystals,
a lot of what we'll
end up talking about,
a lot of the new
understandings about this other.
>> Dr. William Tiller: Yes.
>> Regina Meredith: I
don't want to say field
because that's a
buzz word for you.
>> Dr. William Tiller: Yeah.
>> Regina Meredith: That
other area frequency has to do
with the sacred geometry,
such as the hexagonal
form in the crystal.
>> Dr. William Tiller: Yes.
I found -- the analogy that I
have is that the transformation
of a human from one
stage of reality
to another is not totally unlike
the transformation of a material
from a liquid to a crystal
or from a gas to a solid.
It's a phase transformation, the
one with respect to the humans,
it's just a little
more complicated.
>> Regina Meredith:
Okay, so when you talk
about this phase transformation
of the human, are you talking
in physical form or are
you talking in a more?
>> Dr. William Tiller: You have
to expand beyond
the physical form.
>> Regina Meredith: Right.
>> Dr. William Tiller: Yes.
It's so you -- so the
theoretical modeling that I get
into deals with higher
dimensions of reality
because it is those
transformations
that we're talking about in
our evolutionary process.
We become something much more.
To me -- well, we are
souls [door closes]
and we have a body.
To me, our spiritual
parents dressed us
in these bio bodysuits
and put us in this playpen
that we call a universe in
order to grow in coherence,
in order to develop our gifts
of intentionality, and in order
to become what we were
intended to become I believe
and that is co-creators
with our spiritual parents,
and when you're talking
about creation,
you're talking big time.
>> Regina Meredith: Yes.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
That these higher
dimensional levels of reality.
>> Regina Meredith: So were you
already aware of this or curious
about that even as a child?
I mean did you come in with
this kind of great curiosity?
>> Dr. William Tiller:
I had great curiosity.
I loved to chase
butterflies, catch bees,
but my mother thought
I'd be a biologist,
but I didn't turn it that way.
I was a poet as a young man
and decided I either become a
writer, or I become a scientist.
If I could become a
-- if I come a writer,
I could never be a scientist.
If I become a scientist, maybe
one day I could be a writer, so.
>> Regina Meredith:
Which was true.
It turned out to be true.
>> Dr. William Tiller: Turns
out that's the path I took
and so I went -- got all my
degree work at the University
of Toronto in Engineering
Physics,
so I'm basically a physicist.
I think of myself as a
physicist, and when I decided
to leave Westinghouse,
Stanford invited me to come
to be a full professor at 33
and with tenure fortunately.
>> Regina Meredith: Amazing.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
And my wife always wanted
to live in California.
I didn't know what I wanted
to do, so I thought, "Well,
I'll try it for five
years," and so we went there
and I found I loved the
atmosphere and the scholarship.
It was quite lovely.
>> Regina Meredith: Yes.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
And I decided, "Okay.
It'll be more than five years."
>> Regina Meredith: Yeah.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
It was 34.
>> Regina Meredith: Thirty-four
years, and as you stayed there,
there was a lot that
was quite interesting.
Well, first of all,
you had your own world.
You and your wife have been
meditating for over 40 years.
You had been working with
consciousness and attempting,
not only attempting, but
learning to understand it
and even create models
that did not exist
and that people are still
grasping to understand now,
and this moves beyond
the physics that we know
into another area completely.
Now, when I think of
this in this -- the --
what you're doing with Suzy
Miller in this experiment,
which does have to do
with remote healing,
I think of remote viewing.
>> Dr. William Tiller: Yes.
>> Regina Meredith: Then I think
of Stanford Research Institute.
Then I think of Russell
Targ, Keith Harary
and all those fellows, and so
I would imagine your paths must
have crossed a long time ago.
>> Dr. William Tiller: Well it
did cross in an interesting way,
and I -- and the thing that
was interesting you should know
that when my wife and I were
driving across the country
with our two kids in the back
of our Ford Fairlane, she said,
"Bill, when we get
to California,
let's try to pull together the
spiritual side of our life."
I said, "Yeah, that's
a good idea.
Let's do that," and
so when we got there,
one of the first things we
did was to get back involved
with the Edgar Cayce work.
>> Regina Meredith:
Yes, love it.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
And learned to meditate
using the Edgar Cayce work.
I'd been at Stanford
a couple of years,
and the man who brought me
in -- who had serious illness
and they asked if I
would department chair
because I'd had a group of a
dozen people at Westinghouse
when I was -- by the
time I left there.
>> Regina Meredith: A young man.
>> Dr. William Tiller: So I
had some experience with that,
and I took that on sort of
from the mid-60s to the '70s.
And I used my meditative
techniques because you --
with Cayce approach you can
learn to refocus your mind
and you can learn to relax your
mind and just nourish people
if they're there, and so I
learned to switch back and forth
so fast that I was seen to
be in both spaces at once.
And therefore it turned
out to be very useful.
It was useful when students
would come through the door
and were hesitant about what
they wanted to talk about,
and so I would -- had a
bit of intuition by then
and I would say,
"What about this?
Have you thought about that?"
Et cetera, so -- and I used this
kind of thing in my consulting.
I became a consultant with the
DuPont Company for 25 years,
and it was basically
again, working with people
who were bright but down
on the mindset relative
to their abilities and so
part of it was to nourish them
from emotional mind levels,
show them pathways whereby
their work could have fruition,
and develop trust with them.
>> Regina Meredith: But this
nourishing is what you're also
doing today.
>> Dr. William Tiller: Yes.
>> Regina Meredith: This
is very important work.
>> Dr. William Tiller: Because
it's very important part.
It allows you --
the connectivity between
people requires --
there is that nourishing
and there is the development
of a oneness state
between you, so coherence.
It's a broadening of the
bandwidth now of two people,
two parts into one broader band
and much more information
can be exchanged
in those circumstances.
>> Regina Meredith: Now I'm
going to go back or leap back
for just a sec, just
a little bit.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
You want to go back.
>> Regina Meredith: And
going tangential on Cayce,
Edgar Cayce for a moment because
what I'm seeing, what's going
through my mind is
here we're talking
about the study of
crystallization.
We're talking about new
technologies that are emerging
on the planet and Edgar
Cayce talked about these
in great length in very
ancient civilizations.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
Absolutely.
>> Regina Meredith: Very ancient
sophisticated civilizations.
He also, even though it was
against his Christian
principles,
initially had problems with it
-- had to let the readings stand
on their own, which
we're talking
about reincarnation
and patterns.
>> Dr. William Tiller: He
didn't believe in it originally.
>> Regina Meredith: He
did not, and to have all
of these brilliant physicists
and scientists coming
through in America specifically
was what Cayce was talking
about almost 100 years ago --
80 to 100 years ago to bring
these technologies forward...
>> Dr. William Tiller: Exactly.
Yep.
>> Regina Meredith: ...so I
mean of course I look at you,
and I think, "Hmm, wonder
who he might've been
[chuckles] once upon a time,
can't help it."
>> Dr. William Tiller: Yes.
I understand.
>> Regina Meredith: So this
knowledge is reemerging
on the planet.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
It's reemerging
because it's in the epoch.
The new epoch is now before us.
It's part of this model or
metaphor of out breathing
and in breathing of the all,
where everything
starts at a period.
Let's just call it a
period because we're talking
about a domain of no time.
>> Regina Meredith: Right.
>> Dr. William Tiller: So
everything is coherent,
absolutely everything.
Okay? Think -- just
imagine that,
and things in nature
thermodynamically are only
stable in a state of change.
They're never really static.
They may appear static, but it
means the forces are going back
and forth so fast you
can't measure them.
>> Regina Meredith: Right.
>> Dr. William Tiller: And
all the subtle domain stuff is
doing that.
That's why we can't see it.
>> Regina Meredith: Right.
>> Dr. William Tiller: Okay, so
the issue to the out breathing,
there is the beginning
unraveling
from that total coherence
to enough unravelment
to form a society
which -- was called Mu.
>> Regina Meredith:
Yes, for Lemuria.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
Lemuria was second.
>> Regina Meredith: After Mu.
>> Dr. William Tiller: Was
after Mu and then Atlantis was
after that, but all of
these were in the domain
of subtle energies
which travel faster
than electromagnetic light,
so they were invisible,
so the vacuum still looks to
be invisible, but it's filled
with these stuff -- this stuff,
which are hugely energetic
so every step down was
maybe a billion times
in consciousness
and in coherence.
>> Regina Meredith: Each
epoch period of history, yes.
>> Dr. William Tiller: And
then to come to our epoch.
>> Regina Meredith: Yes.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
So we're pretty dumb.
>> Regina Meredith:
We're pretty dumb,
but we're starting
to remember again.
Now I'll take you
back to the SRI,
the Stanford Research
Institute question
about Russell Targ and how you.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
[Inaudible] often into my office
when I was department
chair and asked
if they could do
these experiments
that Ingo Swann was thinking
up, and Ingo was a dear friend
of mine and I would love to have
been able to do it, but I said,
"Look, the university
won't stand
for this in the main campus.
If you want to do this,
I'd suggest you go to talk
to the people at SRI, Stanford
Research International,"
which Stanford owned in
the early days and he did.
He [inaudible] the money with
the CIA to start this program,
and Ingo came to -- periodically
to the area to train people how
to do it in essence, and he --
Ingo found it in
the [inaudible].
It's called far seeing.
>> Regina Meredith: Yes.
It's in most of the
ancient texts,
the ability that those had
and especially temple
workers of the day and such.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
Yes, absolutely.
>> Regina Meredith: And then
they started bringing in others.
I only came in when
Russell Targ was there.
At that time, I was a
young pup news anchor,
and I had talked my news
director into allowing me
to do a story on remote viewing.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
That's good.
>> Regina Meredith: Which, you
know, this is 30 years ago.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
It's the single most --
we'll call it precise work
in that area that's had
such long time research support
so that they could do
something really serious.
>> Regina Meredith: Well and I
didn't know it was CIA funded
or what it was being used for.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
Nobody did in the old days.
>> Regina Meredith: Nobody --
I found that out when I
met Russell Targ maybe 20
years later.
But what was interesting to
me about the experiments,
I happened to catch them
when they were just coming --
he had just come
back from Russia.
He was leaving and
going to be coming back
and got the first tape
of that famous experiment
of the remote viewing by Juna,
the woman who is [inaudible],
but the thing to me was the
paradigm changer, was the kicker
at the end of the story,
which was the target
that she viewed was not selected
until three hours
after the viewing.
Now I bring it up because
this brings you into --
this brings us into your world.
>> Dr. William Tiller: Yep.
Yep. Well and the issue is
when Einstein did his work,
he had to think of time as an
imaginary distance, so we had X,
Y, Z, I, the imaginary
number times C, the velocity
of light times T. CT
made it a distance and --
but it was imaginary in
that frame of reference,
and then his mathematics
worked in this four space.
We find the same kinds of things
in some of our experiments
and we have phenomenas
starting to happen.
In a remote site up to a month
before we turn the switch
to supposedly turn
the experiment on.
>> Regina Meredith: The
effects are already happening.
>> Dr. William Tiller: It's
called retro-causality.
>> Regina Meredith:
Retro, right.
Retro-causality.
That's right.
>> Dr. William Tiller: Yeah.
It's a very interesting
phenomena, but there -- it's --
we've known about information
entanglement over distance...
>> Regina Meredith: Yes.
Yes.
>> Dr. William Tiller: ...for
a long time, but not over time.
People have thought that
they're doing a great job
if they can get a
few seconds advance.
I was really shocked when
we first -- in one of our --
well our Berlin broadcasting
experiment.
>> Regina Meredith: We're
going to get into several
of those experiments in a bit.
I just want to lay
the foundation
for what domain these
are functioning in.
You call this psycho-energetic
science,
which is essentially
the new physics
because the old quantum
mechanics.
>> Dr. William Tiller: I think
of it as the new physics.
>> Regina Meredith:
You think of it as that
because the old model
isn't serving us
when consciousness comes
into play as you say.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
In essence since the days
of Descartes, consciousness
has not been allowed
in orthodox science, so what
psycho-energetic science does is
it adds intention and
consciousness to the set
of experimental variables
wherein you do your research.
You do your research with
these experimental variables,
and they're robust.
They can have tremendous
effects.
What Descartes said in the 1600s
was because he had the problem
of coming from a theocratic
society to the logos transformed
to the science society,
he said about a century
after the transition,
"Let's make the assumption
that no human qualities of
consciousness, intention,
emotion, mind or spirit can
significantly influence a
well-designed target
experiment in physical reality."
That allowed him to separate
religion from science,
was very necessary at the
time because even a century
after that transition,
lots and lots
of people were still theocrats
and they hadn't made the switch.
Two centuries, so mindsets can
be there for a long, long time.
As much as it was a great
assumption at the time,
it's still being unconsciously
held by orthodox science
and orthodox medicine today,
and that's the problem.
>> Regina Meredith: It's almost
as though the scientist
has become the priest.
>> Dr. William Tiller: The --
they are manifesting
the same kind
of hubris that the priests did.
The priests wouldn't
look at the --
Galileo's experiment because
they knew what the answers were.
Okay, and of course
they were wrong.
The sun does not
travel around the earth.
It's the other way around, so --
and the hubris in today's world
by the orthodox community,
is that they won't look
at the data, and they
won't let you publish
in their journals because,
as I read from many returns,
"I'm sure our readership
isn't interested
in this category of work."
>> Regina Meredith:
So essentially Descartes is
alive and well [chuckles]?
Nothing's changed.
>> Dr. William Tiller: Until
the end of our experiment.
>> Regina Meredith: Yes.
>> Dr. William Tiller: So we --
once when I had the opportunity
from a philanthropist
up in Minnesota to --
he was willing to fund a
three year program with me,
I decided to use the money
to test that experiment,
his experiment, whether his
hypothesis still worked today.
Never been tested by the
orthodox science community.
>> Regina Meredith:
Whose hypothesis?
>> Dr. William Tiller:
Descartes.
>> Regina Meredith:
Descartes, okay.
Yes.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
The Descartes experiment,
so I had learned by
that time in my work.
I started this psycho-energetic
work back in 1971 as part-time.
I had to give up being
department chair and give
up my committees in order to
have time to do this on the side
because I needed to feed
my family, and I still --
I very much like
orthodox science,
and I had good Ph.D. students
and -- so that was a good life,
but I -- this other
was a real calling.
I had to do it, and to
thine own self be true.
>> Regina Meredith: Yes.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
That was the issue.
>> Regina Meredith: So
you have three years.
You have some money.
>> Dr. William Tiller: I had
some money, and I decided
to test the Descartes
experiment.
By that time, because
I'd been doing this work
for about 19 years by then, I'd
already published my first book,
Science and Human
Transformation; Subtle Energies,
Intentionality and
Consciousness,
and so I already knew
how to imprint a device,
a simple electrical device with
an intention and so I thought,
"I can do this Descartes
test, and I will use
that particular device.
I won't use a human because
humans are basically unreliable
in the sense is they can't
do the same thing every day
at the same time, et cetera,
but with a device in between."
>> Regina Meredith: That
could hold that intention.
>> Dr. William Tiller: It
Then I could do it, and other
people could do such things
with those devices, so
it was a perfect place
for the experiment, so
I with some colleagues,
people that I asked to join
me, designed four experiments.
Two were to change
the pH of water.
That's the acid alkaline balance
of water up by one pH unit
and the second one was down
by one pH unit, same water.
And a pH unit is a lot
for the listening public
because if you take
your own blood
and if you increase the pH level
of that blood by half a pH unit
or decrease it by half
a pH unit you're dead.
>> Regina Meredith:
You'll die, yeah.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
You're dead on both ends.
>> Regina Meredith: Right.
>> Dr. William Tiller: Or
as we have global warming
and as the -- that happens, the
pH of the ocean water goes up,
and you're going to lose
coral reefs, and you're going
to have oysters have too
thin a shell to survive.
>> Regina Meredith: It's
happening even with soils
with some of the things in the
air creating alkalined soil
and certain crops
won't grow anymore.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
Yes, exactly, so it's.
>> Regina Meredith:
It's a big deal.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
>> Regina Meredith:
One point is, yeah.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
It's a big deal.
One point is -- it's
a factor of 10
in hydrogen ion concentration.
>> Regina Meredith: Okay.
>> Dr. William Tiller: And our
measurement accuracy was 100th
of a pH unit, so we
had a good instrument.
We had -- we were able to
do something truly novel,
and we were remarkably
successful with that
and the next one was
with a liver enzyme,
alkaline phosphatase.
We could condition a space to
this higher level of reality.
We could expose it for
30 minutes in the space,
and we'd find its chemical
activity is increased by 30%.
We did it with fruit fly
larva, living system now.
We were able to increase the
ATP, the energy storage molecule
in the cells of fruit
fly larva by 10 to 15%
with p-values better than
.001, so one chance in 1000.
It occurred by random chance.
>> Regina Meredith: Right.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
And because --
so we were adding a
third phosphorus atom
to that molecule.
The precursor ADP was
-- had two phosphorus,
so that was the beginning
state and so we were able
to increase very significantly
and that made the
fruit flies more fit,
so it took much less time to
get to the adult fly stage.
>> Regina Meredith: I remember.
It's 25% less time
to reach adulthood.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
25%, yeah.
Again with p-values
better than .001.
>> Regina Meredith: So by this
time you guys are going sayonara
Descartes [chuckles].
>> Dr. William Tiller:
Yes, exactly.
It was sayonara.
>> Regina Meredith: But who
in the scientific community
embraced your experiments?
>> Dr. William Tiller: Nada.
Very few.
>> Regina Meredith: Nada.
>> Dr. William Tiller: Yeah.
Basically the issue is
I certainly had a couple
of friends at Stanford that were
still my friends after I gave
up being department chair to
do this crazy kind of stuff.
They did try to --
what's it called
when you do something
with someone?
An intervention [chuckles].
>> Regina Meredith:
[Chuckles] To get you off
of this ridiculous
path you were on.
>> Dr. William Tiller: Right.
Yes.
>> Regina Meredith: So you
must've been about jumping
out of your skin when you
saw the results of this.
>> Dr. William Tiller: Oh yes.
I was just glorious.
>> Regina Meredith: The
mind, the intention's effect
on changing the material
world, which is --
this is remote healing.
This is faith healing.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
This is -- exactly.
It's all of those things.
It provides the structure
for those folks,
and one of the reasons
why they love my work
so much is it gives them a
skeleton to hang their work on.
>> Regina Meredith:
Yes, absolutely.
>> Dr. William Tiller: And
their work is meaningful,
but they have not been able
to get any reliable data.
I shouldn't say reliable,
but reproducible data
with all the scientific
caveats, and it's hard
when you're dealing with humans.
They're so -- humans have
so many variables in
them that -- yeah.
>> Regina Meredith: Yeah.
The good thing is you did
provide that framework for them.
You gave it a language.
You gave it a model, and you
say it's not just the mind.
And this is where I want to get
into an analogy you gave me
off camera, which I loved.
It also requires the emotion,
and you liken the mind
to the rocket and...
>> Dr. William Tiller: And
the emotion is the power,
the thruster.
>> Regina Meredith: Yes.
>> Dr. William Tiller: Yes,
so that's what gives it
the thrust, so the emotion.
When you do imprint an
intention, it's really important
to have your emotion get
deeply into the commitment
like that young boy, Jacob.
>> Regina Meredith: We're
going to see him in just a sec.
Oh I can't wait to show this.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
Because basically that's it.
He's emotionally caught
up in what he's doing,
and he should be.
Yeah.
>> Regina Meredith:
We'll see that.
We're going to show about
a two minute clip of him.
We talked with Suzy also,
and we showed a clip of him
when he was very young
and he was basically diagramming
how time travel works,
and he was maybe
eight at the time.
He was very sure of himself, and
his diagrams were certainly --
there isn't any science
out there any more accurate
that I've seen of wormholes and
time space fabrication than his.
And so the one we're going to
see a little bit later he's
about 14-years-old talking
at TED talks and it is
that enthusiasm coming through.
So let's talk about how
that works without getting
into the scientific terms so
much about setting the intention
and then having to use that
booster fuel of the emotions
to create the effect
on the material world.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
First of all, the key thing
in my modeling is that
it was necessary for me
to invent a duplex frame of
reference for studying nature.
The -- our normal reality
is just a simplex system,
distance, time.
It's a four dimensional
construct, okay?
So to explain the phenomena that
I was getting, I said, "Okay.
I've got to expand the reference
frame," and the key part
of expanding the reference
frame was that I had
to invent something that
existed in my intuition
in the domain of emotion.
I called it a deltron.
A deltron can go both
faster than light
and slower than light.
It's outside of distance
time, okay?
One of the things you may
not know, but it turns
out relativity theory
works very fine in faster
than light phenomena, and it
works very -- well, of course,
in slower than light, but
the Einstein facts are saying
that -- because he thought
only in terms of distance time
and nothing beyond it, so as you
accelerate a particle it goes
up towards infinity at
the velocity of light.
And he says you'd have to give
it an infinite amount of energy
to get the velocity of light
and therefore it can't happen,
so nothing can go
faster than light,
but when you use a duplex frame,
which I did, which is the slower
than light stuff is
distance time, but the faster
than light is its
reciprocal, okay?
That's a frequency
domain because.
>> Regina Meredith: And that's
where the emotions live?
>> Dr. William Tiller: No,
they're in the next stage up.
>> Regina Meredith:
Okay, the -- okay.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
So the point is
that now there is another domain
beyond the velocity of light,
so now you don't have to go
all the way up to infinity.
You can go part way up and
you just tunnel right through,
which quantum mechanics
says you can do,
and going the other way you
can tunnel right through,
so in essence, that
limitation no longer holds
when you're using this kind of
duplex frame to look at nature.
>> Regina Meredith: Well
now this is interesting.
>> Dr. William Tiller: And then
that duplex frame
is embedded now
in the higher dimensional
frames where emotion is
and mind is and spirit is.
>> Regina Meredith: So a couple
weeks ago I was interviewing
Barbara Hand Clow.
She's a scientist, but she --
anyone who has watched
the interview already,
basically she started
coming in communication
with [inaudible] culture,
[inaudible] specifically,
who took a period of about
60 hours to download her
with the nature of our
multidimensionality,
the nine dimensions that
they said we live in.
But the point there is, they
said the only access point
to the higher dimensions
was through feeling.
>> Dr. William Tiller: When
I do -- when we imprint,
and we become coherent in this
plane but we try to cohere
with colleagues in higher
dimensions and you know
when you're there
when you feel it.
>> Regina Meredith:
That's right.
That's what they were saying.
It is a feeling first.
Now some people can see
into those realms and hear
and so forth and interact.
>> Dr. William Tiller: I
can't do any of those things.
>> Regina Meredith: And some
people can, but we can all feel.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
But I can feel.
Exactly.
>> Regina Meredith: And so.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
Feeling is key.
>> Regina Meredith: And you
have a saying that I just love.
Well, it has to do with love,
and that love is the
universal solvent,
so now as this component of
emotion or feeling that seems
to have this bonding effect in
these other frequency ranges
or dimensions you're talking
about, such as when --
if you're close to
someone they think of you
and you know it immediately,
right?
>> Dr. William Tiller: It's
a precursor to telepathy.
>> Regina Meredith: Exactly, and
we've all had those experiences,
so that's the area
you're working
in that you say gives
us the velocity
for the mental intention.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
It gives the thrust.
>> Regina Meredith:
The thrust, yeah.
>> Dr. William Tiller: Yeah
thrust is the better word.
Yeah.
>> Regina Meredith: The thrust
for what it is our mind has
constructed as an intention.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
And the issue is, you see,
I started this by
explaining the deltron.
>> Regina Meredith: Yes.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
That's the coupler.
The coupler's really important.
You can have these two domains
functioning, but not interacting
with each other because if
one is faster than light
and the other's slower
than light,
they would repel each other.
They will not interact,
so the issue is you have
to have a coupler, so.
>> Regina Meredith: What would
the coupler be in a situation
where another human being
whom you're connected
with is thinking of you
and you receive that?
>> Dr. William Tiller:
That's part of it,
and the coupler is even
important is making atoms cohere
within the particles, et cetera.
It can get complicated.
>> Regina Meredith: It gets --
yeah we won't get into
the science of it, okay.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
But the coupler is key
in this whole drama, and
the more coupling you have,
the more everything is
connected to everything else,
so it's a connector and that's
happening in our universe.
This is why the placebo
effect is nonzero.
Understand why?
>> Regina Meredith: No.
>> Dr. William Tiller: Okay.
I said do you want
to understand why?
>> Regina Meredith:
Oh, yes I do.
I said I don't understand.
Yes, I'd love to know.
>> Dr. William Tiller: All
right, because it's important.
>> Regina Meredith: Yes.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
There was an article I read
in Science Magazine
back in about 1998,
and I refer to it
in my writings.
Twenty five years before, the
placebo effect was maybe 15%,
but that year they had
done another OCD experiment
and they found that
placebo effect was 75,
80% and was getting
to the place that more
and more pharmaceuticals were
being denied because they --
the placebo effect was so high.
That meant it didn't work.
They interpreted that it didn't
work, but the way I looked
at it was that in the cosmos
itself this coupler, deltrons,
have been leaking into
distance time very slowly.
>> Regina Meredith: Interesting.
Yes.
>> Dr. William Tiller: So
that now you can have coupling
between things, and so
you can't look at it.
When you have this kind of
coupling you have to look
at these things not as
a mathematical scalar,
which is just sort of one data
point at a point, but you have
to look at them as vectors, and
when you look at them as vectors
in the medical experiment,
you've a doctor.
You have a treatment.
You have patients, and
you have a placebo.
Each of them must be
treated as a vector,
and the system is a
sum of the vectors,
but what you can experimentally
measure is what's called
the intensity.
The intensity means that you
have to take that system vector
and you multiply it with what's
called the complex conjugant.
It just means you've
changed the sign
of the imaginary parts, okay?
>> Regina Meredith: Okay.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
But now what it means,
it's like taking A
plus B plus C plus D,
multiplying A prime plus B prime
plus C prime plus D prime, okay?
And so you're going
to get A A primes.
You're going to get A B
primes, A C primes, A D primes,
so it means that the placebo,
which is one of those,
is multiplied by all these
other elements in the system.
>> Regina Meredith: Interesting.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
And therefore,
although it is inert
all by itself,
in the system it is not inert.
>> Regina Meredith: Interesting.
Okay, now where does?
>> Dr. William Tiller: Anyway,
you don't want to go there
because that's complex.
>> Regina Meredith:
Where does this --
no I don't want to
go further into it
because I wouldn't
even understand you,
so where does this universal
solvent that you speak of as --
of love figure in this
coupling or this deltron?
>> Dr. William Tiller: I think
where it seems to come in --
I think if I go back to one
of the experiences I had
when I was consulting with --
at DuPont with a man who
had a difficult problem
in an area I was not
at all expert in,
but I found that by
nourishing, radiating --
just say radiating love to him.
>> Regina Meredith: Yes.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
Caring, consideration, we --
our consciousness is -- seemed
to join, so in essence I seemed
to have access to his
information banks,
and so I could have a meaningful
conversation with him on things
that he was -- knew a lot about,
and I found out about only
because I was closely
joined with him.
>> Regina Meredith:
You were joined.
Yes.
>> Dr. William Tiller: We were
part of a one, and then --
and so that's really
where love is.
>> Regina Meredith: That makes
sense because a lot of people
that are capable of seeing
beyond time space continuum
also, speak about the
accompanying feeling
that happens before
they start the reading
of this incredible
sense of love, peace.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
It's the feeling, exactly.
>> Regina Meredith: Now some
people talk a lot about this,
this field of -- now I know
we're switching gears just a
little bit, but you don't
like that term the field.
>> Dr. William Tiller: The
field -- there are many fields.
Okay, we have in our
orthodox science community.
We know four fundamental forces,
gravity, electromagnetism,
short range nuclear force,
long range nuclear force,
and they create many
fields, okay?
I'm talking about the things
that go faster than light.
>> Regina Meredith: So
we need a new language.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
We need a new language,
and the point is
there are fields.
I call them subtle
energy fields.
A subtle energy is
anything outside
of the four fundamental
forces, so that whole territory.
Nature is radiating to us all
the time on many, many bands,
and we know one of them, so
I like to think of a ladder
of understanding, okay?
And the rungs are these
levels of reality.
The bottom most rung
we have done very well.
That's the rung of
today's orthodox science.
We've done it for 400 years.
We do it very well.
We now know that.
What my work is doing, it's
dealing with the second rung
with some things from the
third rung, and that's our path
as we go into this next
epoch and the epoch after it,
and the epoch after that
as we get back to the one.
>> Regina Meredith:
So that takes us now
to these new kids --
these kids being born
that are being diagnosed
by an old paradigm
of medicine as autistic.
And so Suzy told me that
when she first met with you,
you said, "You know,
I'm interested
in doing something
with these kids."
Why was that?
What were you seeing?
>> Dr. William Tiller:
Well basically we met
about two years ago in a group
of people I hadn't met before,
and they asked me to talk about
just what you're asking me
to talk about and Suzy was
quiet and then she started
to ask something, and I
was saying things to her
and she said, "Oh, that's just
what I was thinking to ask you,"
and this went back and forth
a few times and I thought,
"She's a very interesting,"
aside from being pretty,
"She's a very interesting
woman," and I thought
at that time, "Hmm, I
must get back to her,
learn more about
what she's doing."
That's how we met, and then
we had a second occasion.
They were -- we were
brought together
by Sandie Sedgbeer,
whom you know.
>> Regina Meredith: Yes, I do.
>> Dr. William Tiller: And the
second one as well, over a lunch
with Suzy -- my wife Jean and I
and Suzy and Bill from England
that she works with --
forget his last name --
sorry, and that's where the --
I learned about the work
that they were doing together
with respect to autistic
children and such, and I said,
"I think it would be interesting
to imprint an intention
and to do something
in this area,"
and that's where it began.
>> Regina Meredith:
Which is -- I mean --
what you're seeing is -- I know
you're both feeling very joyful
at the early evidence of
what is coming in over this.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
Remarkably joyful.
>> Regina Meredith:
So with these kids --
broadcasting these signals to
these kids and their families
through your technology.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
And the signals you have
to understand -- I
think I mentioned
to you the other night --
the first imprinting
experiment we did on --
to make an intention
host device,
to make the device
be an active system.
The intention was in it --
took that device and took
an un-imprinted host device,
okay -- which can be made
commercially, so it's available
and set them about
100 meters apart
and turned them off
electrically so there should --
they should just sit there.
Nothing should happen, right?
Not so. Within three days
this un-imprinted one --
that's that one, received the
imprint statement from this one,
so that that could be used
the same way as this one.
I first said, "Holy whatever,"
and I'm not going to be able
to do an experiment
because I lose my controls.
There's no control, and...
>> Regina Meredith: Because
these guys are talking
to each other.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
...they're talking to each other
in a language I have
no knowledge of
and no one else does, and then
I thought about it a little bit,
and I thought, "Well, okay.
They -- they're interacting.
Electromagnetism is
probably involved,
but normal surround
air electromagnetism,
so I can screen them.
I can put them
in an electrically
grounded Faraday cage, or --
and to take care of these
light kind of things,
I can wrap them in
aluminum foil."
So when I did that I
found that I could keep
that imprint intention alive
for three to six months,
which meant I could
do experiments.
I could send them
to other people.
They could do experiments,
and we could re-imprint them
on that kind of a cycle, so
that meant it was possible
to do the experiments
and that lead to the ones
that we already talked
to you about,
the changing the
properties of materials,
and then the next
serious step with that was
to try to broadcast this.
And the first experiment
was depression anxiety,
which we broadcast
over maybe 1500 --
2000 miles, and found
when the experiment ran
for eight months we got
p-values better than .001.
>> Regina Meredith: Explain
in real numbers what kind
of effects that means.
>> Dr. William Tiller: Okay,
what it means is -- we first --
we had about 500
people and a student
at Holos University wanted to do
a thesis using this technology.
So the technique we worked
out was to use just the name
and address, okay, of
the individual scrolling
through a laptop
computer in a room
where we could have an
imprinted host device
to condition the space with
a particular intention,
with the assumption
that the intention --
the space would saturate
the computer
because you see the
act is an intention
that in fact Person A gets a
piece of time of the broadcast,
Person B, Person C, et cetera.
>> Regina Meredith: Right.
It's a cycle [inaudible].
>> Dr. William Tiller: So
it's all implicit in that,
and then we had another site
where we had an un-imprinted
device or no --
we didn't condition the space
at all, but we did this rotation
of the laptop computer with
the same -- no effect there.
In this one we -- at three
months we got a beginning
effect, but it wasn't
really significant
but at eight months
it was significant,
which means that there was
only one chance in 1000
that it could've
happened by random chance.
>> Regina Meredith: So
people were getting?
>> Dr. William Tiller:
People were getting better.
>> Regina Meredith:
Very noticeable results
on their depression and anxiety.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
There were -- yes --
exactly, very significant
results.
>> Regina Meredith: Okay,
so that was the first one.
>> Dr. William Tiller: That
was the first experiment,
and then I did it -- we
did another one where --
and that was about
three years ago --
four years ago I guess between
our Payson, Arizona lab site
and a particular room
in a particular building
on a particular corner
in Berlin, Germany.
Okay?
>> Regina Meredith: Okay.
>> Dr. William Tiller: And
we knew the postal address,
so that was our target site.
And the intention was to --
in our site we set up exactly
the same kind of equipment
in both places with
an un-imprinted device
and intention site.
We were going to imprint
the one in the Payson site
so that the pH would go up
by one and a half pH units,
and immediately be
broadcast to Berlin, Germany,
that particular site and
that theirs should go up
and they should see the
measurement and they can plot
out their data and
we can plot our data.
It happened.
Now the thing that was
surprising was there's started
going up even before.
>> Regina Meredith: [Chuckles].
>> Dr. William Tiller: I
wrote the imprint statement.
I knew it.
I told them what
it was going to be.
>> Regina Meredith: It's
like that advanced remote
viewing into the future.
Yeah.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
Exactly, so --
and this was a month before I
threw the switch eventually.
>> Regina Meredith:
Wow, a month.
Isn't that interesting?
>> Dr. William Tiller:
Yes, it is.
>> Regina Meredith: Just by
the time you've even conceived
of the experiment,
it's already underway.
It's already happening.
That tells us a lot
about what's happening
with our random musings
of the mind day in
and day out, doesn't it?
>> Dr. William Tiller: Exactly.
Yes, well it -- the mind thing
of course is very important.
Maybe I should put it in.
I talked a bit about it before,
but it's important
for your listeners.
The -- we have our physical
mind and we have our --
let's say our conscious mind,
and we have our unconscious
mind.
The information handling
capacity
of the conscious mind
appears to be less
than 50 bits per second whereas
the unconscious mind is probably
more than 50 million bits per
second, so you can get from this
that the unconscious mind is
doing almost all the work.
>> Regina Meredith:
It's running the show.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
It's gathering the data.
It's plotting the data.
It's operating.
It's using differential
equations on the data.
It's getting all
kinds of things,
and it takes little
kernels, gathers
and creates little kernels of
information and it feeds us
to the conscious mind --
or the conscious brain --
so the brain can feel it's
alive, but only along pathways
that the human has
given meaning to.
If it doesn't give meaning
to it, it will not pass
that information because
it'll just be wasted.
>> Regina Meredith: That
makes perfect sense.
Okay now so we take this
now all this technology.
>> Dr. William Tiller: So
you give it meaning you say.
>> Regina Meredith: You
give it meaning and so.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
You're creating it.
>> Regina Meredith:
You've created
that with this experiment,
with this Autism
Intention Experiment.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
It's getting closer
to the co-creation with
our spiritual parents.
>> Regina Meredith: Yes.
>> Dr. William Tiller: I
mean it is what we can do.
>> Regina Meredith: Now how
do you view these kids now
that you've had -- and
we're going to watch
that video is just a
second of this kid.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
Okay, well the -- my --
again I used my intuition.
What was -- what's the problem?
I don't know anything
about autism,
and the thought I had was that
these are highly advanced souls
who are developed at
levels such that --
see you got to interface
with the bio bodysuit.
That seems to be the difficulty.
They have difficulty getting
into the bio bodysuit,
which is -- it has a
particular meridian system.
It has a particular
chakra system.
These advanced souls
will have chakra systems
and such far beyond that.
>> Regina Meredith:
And they're trying
to integrate with us still.
>> Dr. William Tiller: The
way I look at it is think
of the human being
of our culture.
They might have a chakra
with sort of eight lobes.
Let's not talk about
what those things mean,
and the others might have
30 lobes, because they're
so advanced, and how
do they interface --
the two information systems?
>> Regina Meredith: Right.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
Now we're talking
about phase transformation.
>> Regina Meredith: Yes.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
Now we're talking
about interfaces between worlds.
>> Regina Meredith: This
integration process.
Yes.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
This integration process.
>> Regina Meredith: And
when they do, what we --
so what Suzy and I were talking
about is the incredible depth
of wisdom knowledge
science coming through,
and we talked a little
bit ago about Jacob.
Now let's watch this one.
He's about 14-years-old here,
and you can tell his
behavior is different.
His enthusiasm levels
of the soul coming
through are just
astounding, but this is his.
>> Dr. William Tiller: Well,
one would love Ph.D.
students like that.
>> Regina Meredith:
Yes [chuckles]
and let's watch Jacob now.
The way he sees the world
and himself is just amazing.
>> Jacob: Introduce
myself because I did not do
that at the beginning of the
talk [audience laughter],
so about 11 years
ago I was diagnosed
with this thing called autism.
What that meant was I
was focusing in things
in such extreme detail that
[audience laughter] it seemed
like I wasn't thinking at all.
Basically I'd be like, "Oh look.
Here's this reflection of
that light, so there's a light
up here, but oh there's
my shadow,
so there's a light back there
and I look over and it's
over there [audience
laughter] okay.
[Chuckles] Okay, so
because of that, you know,
people thought I would never
learn because it just looked
like I was staring
into the open.
It looked like I wasn't
doing anything at all,
so people told me I
would never learn.
I'd never think.
I'd never talk.
I'd never tie my shoes, which --
okay, they might have
had a point on, you know.
I'm wearing sandals
[audience laughter],
so [chuckles] you know, but
however, at that age I went
to the Barnes and Noble, and I
got a textbook and from the data
that was in the textbook
I derived Capra's laws
when I wasn't supposed to
be learning or thinking
at all [audience laughter].
So basically from the
other people's point
of view it was just, you know,
it wasn't really
looking too good.
I wasn't finger painting
or doing story time or any
of the other stuff the two,
three, four-year-olds would do,
but, you know, what they did
was because of that they took me
to Special Ed, which
is extremely special
in the fact it didn't educate
me [audience laughter].
[Chuckles] So during that
time I had to stop learning
because I didn't
have a way to learn.
You know, I was just in Special
Ed, so what they would do is,
you know, okay, so I wasn't able
to learn [chuckles]
anything at all.
However, at that age I started
thinking about things in sort
of the way of oh
all these shadows,
and I think that's why I
like astrophysics, physics
and math today because
I had to stop learning.
I believe that's why
I do what I do today.
>> Regina Meredith: So the name
of his talk was Forget
What You Know.
We need to forget what we know,
so that you can remember
what truly is,
and I just love this
little fellow.
I mean -- and the thing is, as
Suzy and I were talking about,
once this -- as you
say this phase.
What do you call it?
A phase shift?
>> Dr. William Tiller:
Phase transformation.
>> Regina Meredith: Phase
transformation happens
and these beings with
say 30 chakras come
into this eight chakra system,
that's what we have
to look forward to.
>> Dr. William Tiller: Yep.
>> Regina Meredith: And so what
is your perception now looking
-- backing up and looking at it.
We've talked about
the technology.
We know how it interfaces.
Like Suzy says, you have a new
experiment coming up in July
of 2013, very quickly here and
we're going to be getting back
with her on the data once
you have a good year.
>> Dr. William Tiller: Yes.
>> Regina Meredith: So we see
that it's working already.
We know that it's working.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
Yes, it's working robustly.
>> Regina Meredith: And so now
let's get into who these --
the nature of these kids
and what it means for them
to even attempt to come
into this dense frequency
and this limited body system at
this time, in this epoch period.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
It's a challenge.
I mean I would think
that it would be
like a space traveler being
born to a mother of our far,
far Neanderthal ancestors.
I mean.
>> Regina Meredith: Yeah.
Good way to liken it.
>> Dr. William Tiller: Yeah, so
the -- it's wonderfully serious.
I don't know enough yet.
I'm just excited that this
new energy that we're working
with I can -- we can
broadcast around the --
anywhere around in the world.
>> Regina Meredith: And you
can do it for any purpose.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
Seemingly.
>> Regina Meredith: In fact
when I first came in --
well it wasn't the first
time I saw you in a room,
but I remember was
about eight years ago,
and it was at a private
gathering have to do
with brain state technology
and shifting brain states
through an advanced
kind of neuro feedback,
and that device was being
talked about at that time.
Just to give us an idea,
why were you there?
What were you looking at in
terms of broadcast at that time?
>> Dr. William Tiller:
Well at that point
in time it was Lee Gerdes and
I were trying to find a match
between our two things.
He had a technology in hand.
I had one I'd been working on
for a long time that allowed us
to get into other
levels of reality.
He was -- and so I thought that
one could condition the space
where he is doing his work, and
he would be able to do many,
many more things
than as it is now.
I mean he's doing
wonderful things as it is,
but we can go far beyond that.
It's the conditioning of
the space that's important.
It turns out that the space --
see we got these wonderful
experimental results.
>> Regina Meredith: Right.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
And then we said, "Okay.
Now let's look over
at the space itself,"
and so we did a bunch --
whole bunch of experiments
and we got magnetic
effects that are just --
you could never get them in our
normal distance time reality.
They just don't happen
because in this --
we have only magnetic dipoles
in our normal distance
time reality,
and we were getting
effects that could come
from magnetic monopoles,
okay, which had been studied
around the world by scientists
spending billions of dollars
to find magnetic monopoles.
>> Regina Meredith:
What is the significance
in laypersons' terms?
>> Dr. William Tiller:
In laypersons' terms,
we have electric charges.
Most people know about
positive and negative charges.
Those are monopoles, all right?
If they interact, that would
be a dipole, so all at the --
mainly it's an electrical
system in this world,
so movement of electric
charge, which is current,
that creates -- induces a
magnetic field in the space.
>> Regina Meredith: And that
field can be impregnated with?
>> Dr. William Tiller: But
it's always a dipole field.
At our normal reality all the
magnetism is dipoles, all right,
but a magnetic monopole all
by itself people look for.
They didn't find.
They said, therefore, it should
occur because of symmetries
in physics, but it didn't.
They said it didn't because
they'd run the experiments,
but the experiments were
never in a conditioned space.
They didn't change the
consciousness of their space.
We changed the consciousness
of the space.
We found we could get
information entanglement.
coherence links that were --
the whole room and larger
whereas normally, when you talk
about molecules and making them
coherent you might get five
or 10.
That would be wonderful,
but we can room size.
>> Regina Meredith: Room
size, now this device
that you're conditioning
the rooms
with this consciousness with,
you mentioned earlier
that it's commercial.
Does that mean it's actually
commercially available?
>> Dr. William Tiller: Well
the un-imprinted device is.
We sell it on our website.
People can.
>> Regina Meredith: The
un-imprinted devices?
>> Dr. William Tiller: Yeah,
they could get one by PayPal.
>> Regina Meredith: Then how
do you get the really clear
conscious intention.
>> Dr. William Tiller: Ah, you
have to be able to imprint.
>> Regina Meredith: Yes.
>> Dr. William Tiller: Now, in
my case we've had replication,
but we have always provided.
>> Regina Meredith: The imprint.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
The imprinted device.
>> Regina Meredith: Yeah.
>> Dr. William Tiller: Because
of the special relationship
that seems to exist
between us and the unseen,
and these are higher dimensions.
>> Regina Meredith: Sure.
I understand.
>> Dr. William Tiller:
People far --
beings beyond, and I
don't ask where they are,
but they're pretty special.
>> Regina Meredith: Yeah, so
how's the average Joe imprint?
>> Dr. William Tiller:
That's the question.
>> Regina Meredith:
You don't know yet?
>> Dr. William Tiller: I
mean I've been imprinting
for 45 years, or I've been
meditating for 45 years.
>> Regina Meredith: Yeah.
You're not the average Joe.
>> Dr. William Tiller: So -- and
the people that work with me,
they -- they're siddhi yoga
practitioners for 30 years,
35 years and if we get the funds
to expand, I will want everybody
to be working on themselves.
>> Regina Meredith: And
thank you so much again.
I really appreciate all
the work you've done.
You can find out more about
the Autism Intention Experiment
by going to suzymiller.com.
You can also find out how
you might become involved
or even donate to the effort.
For more of Dr. Tiller's
work, go to tiller.org to dive
into his work, which shows
the basis for a new model
of consciousness-based
scientific research.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.
[ Music ]
[ Silence ]